Implementation_Notes.txt
========================
SSLRef 3.0 Final -- 11/19/96
Copyright (c)1996 by Netscape Communications Corp.

By retrieving this software you are bound by the licensing terms
disclosed in the file "LICENSE.txt". Please read it, and if you don't
accept the terms, delete this software.

SSLRef 3.0 was codeveloped by Netscape Communications Corp. of Mountain
View, California <http://home.netscape.com/> and Consensus Development
Corporation of Berkeley, California <http://www.consensus.com>.


Preface
-------
This document describes what features of the SSL 3.0 protocol are
implemented in SSLRef 3.0. It contains these sections:

  - Design Goals
  - Design Strategy
  - Functionality
  - Cipher Suites
  - Not Supported

More detailed information about the architecture of SSLRef 3.0 is
provided in the document API_Details.pdf.


Design Goals
------------
SSLRef 3.0 is a reference implementation of the SSL 3.0 protocol. It can
be used as an example of a correct implementation, as a product against
which other implementations can be checked, and for academic review.

SSLRef 3.0 supports a variety of different operating modes of the
protocol. However, it does not deliver an implementation of every
possible variant of SSL communication.


Design Strategy
---------------
SSLRef 3.0 is designed to meet these objectives:

  - Simple. The API should be easy to describe, learn, and use.

  - Complete. The API should be sufficient for a complete implementation
    of SSL 3.0 and all common uses of the protocol.

  - Portable. The API should be suitable for use on all platforms with
    compilers which are compatible with ANSI C libraries.

  - Flexible. The API should allow the modification of supported
    algorithms and data transports.

  - Protocol Compatible. Support for the SSL 2.0 protocol is implemented
    as part of SSLRef 3.0 using the same API functions as used for the
    SSL 3.0 protocol.

  - Code Compatible. The API can be used to implement a glue library
    which provides a simple migration path from the SSLRef 2.0 API.

  - Thread-Safe. SSLRef 3.0 is thread-safe. All information and buffers
    for an individual SSL connection are encoded in a context structure
    created by the user and passed to the library for each call.
    However, there is no protection against multiple threads updating
    the context structure simultaneously. This stucture is opaque to
    enhance flexibility. Fields are accessed by calls to the library.

  - Non-blocking I/O. SSLRef 3.0 supports non-blocking I/O. If the
    library is called to perform an action for which it has not yet
    received sufficient data, such as a read request when no data is
    available, the library returns SSLWouldBlockErr. This allows the
    user to perform other tasks while waiting for the block condition to
    clear and before requesting the action again.

  - Platform Independent. SSLRef 3.0 is platform independent. All
    platform dependent functionality, such as memory allocation and I/O,
    is abstracted into user defined callback functions. References to
    these callback functions are stored with the other connection
    context information. However, for simplicity, callback functions are
    not used for cryptographic functions; support for BSAFE and RSAREF
    is built directly into the code.


Functionality
-------------
SSLRef 3.0 is a software library distributed as ANSI C source-code. It
can be compiled on Windows 95/NT or on the Solaris platforms, and linked
into TCP/IP application programs. SSLRef 3.0 was also designed to be
easily portable to a wide variety of other platforms and operating
systems.

SSLRef 3.0 supports:
  - Data exchange between SSL 3.0 servers and clients
  - Data exchange with SSL 2.0 servers and clients
  - Server and client authentication
  - ASN.1, X.509, and X.509v3 certificates
  - RSAREF and BSAFE
  - Simple plug-in architecture for supporting a variety of I/O
  - Non-blocking I/O
  - Multithreaded environemnts
  - Easily adding additional cipher suites


Cipher Suites
-------------
SSLRef 3.0 supports only RSA-based certificates suitable for encryption
(non-export) or restricted to signing of ephemeral exportable keys.

SSLRef 3.0 supports these cipher suites:
    SSL_NULL_WITH_NULL_NULL
    SSL_RSA_WITH_NULL_MD5
    SSL_RSA_EXPORT_WITH_RC4_40_MD5
    SSL_RSA_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA
    SSL_DH_anon_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA

While not a complete list of cypher suites, this selection adequately
illustrates implementation of a variety of key exchange, stream
encryption, and hashing algorithms.

Because SSL 3.0 does not define any compression algorithms, the only
method SSLRef 3.0 supports is the "CompressionMethod.null".


Not Supported
-------------
Public-private keypair generation, certificate requests and responses,
and database storage of these items is not included in SSLRef 3.0.
Instead, these items should be obtained from your certificate issuer,
such as VeriSign.

SSLRef 2.0 included a library with some X.509v1 certificate support as
well as a PEM-style certificate request tool. These capabilities are not
provided in SSLRef 3.0.
